4.19 An inversion of a permutation is a pair of elements that are out of order.

1. Show that a permutation of *n* items has at most *n(n−1)/2* inversions. Which permutation(s) have exactly *n(n−1)/2* inversions?
2. Let *P* be a permutation and *P<sup>r</sup>* be the reversal of this permutation. Show that *P* and *P<sup>r</sup>* have a total of exactly *n(n−1)/2* inversions.
3. Use the previous result to argue that the expected number of inversions in a random permutation is *n(n−1)/4*.

**Solution** 

1. This is a summation of the possible count of inversions.


        The first number has  *n - 1* possible inversions
        The second number has *n - 2* possible inversions
        The third number has  *n - 3* possible inversions
        ...
        The *nth* number has  *n - n* possible inversions
    

The total is the sum from *0* to *n - 1* which gives *n(n-1)/2*.

2. Assuming the permutation *P* has *x* inversions; then its inversion *P<sup>r</sup>* would have *n(n-1)/2 - x* inversions.
The reversal complements the original permutation, i.e. every in-order pair in *P* becomes an inversion when it is
reversed and vice-versa.
Thus the total of inversions is *n(n-1)/2 - x + x* which is *n(n-1)/2*.

3. Since every permutation of the set or its reversal can likely occur; then the average case scenario, there will be 
*1/2 X possible number of inversions*. This gives *n(n-1)/4* as the expected number of inversions. 

**References**

1. [Dutch national flag problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dutch_national_flag_problem)

2. [Stack overflow answer](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/11214089/understanding-dutch-national-flag-program)