In the bin-packing problem, we are given *n* metal objects, each weighing between zero and one kilogram. Our goal is to find the smallest number of bins that will hold the *n* objects, with each bin holding one kilogram at most.

 * The best-fit heuristic for bin packing is as follows. Consider the objects in the order in which they are given. For each object, place it into the partially filled bin with the smallest amount of extra room after the object is inserted.. If no such bin exists, start a new bin. Design an algorithm that implements the best-fit heuristic (taking as input the *n* weights *w1*, *w2* ,..., *wn* and outputting the number of bins used) in *O(nlogn)* time.

 * Repeat the above using the worst-fit heuristic, where we put the next object in the partially filled bin with the largest amount of extra room after the object is inserted.

**Solution**

 * **Best-fit heuristic**
  
     A tree is better suited for this problem. Let's assume we want to use a sorted array to store the available space of the bins. In the worst case scenario; the algorithm would walk through all *n* bins before finding out there is no matching bin. Repeating this *n* times leads to an *O(n^2)* algorithm.
     
     To improve, a binary search tree can be used to store the available bin spaces; this will give a guaranteed access time of *O(logn)* which in turn gives an *O(nlogn)* algorithm over *n* objects. The algorithm can work thus:
     
      * Create a tree with an empty bin as the root element
      * Take the first object and fit it into the bin
      
        * If the bin is filled up; remove it from the tree and jump to the beginning of the algorithm again
        * Otherwise, set the bin empty space to *1 - w*
        
      * If the next object can't fit into the existing bin

        * Create a new bin
        * Assign that object to the bin
        * Set the bin's empty space to *1 - w*
        * Insert this bin into the right position in the tree
        
      * Find the bin with the smallest space left after fitting the object into the bin; since this is a tree, this would imply finding the leftmost child that can contain that object

 * **Worst-fit heuristic**
     
     This requires a reverse of the first approach. Rather than finding the leftmost child, this would involve finding the rightmost child