3-14. Extend the data structure of the previous problem to support insertions and deletions. Each element now has both a key and a value. An element is accessed by its key. The addition operation is applied to the values, but the elements are accessed by its key. The Partial-sum operation is different.

 * *Add(k,y)* -- Add the value *y* to the item with key *k*.
 * *Insert(k,y)* -- Insert a new item with key *k* and value *y*.
 * *Delete(k)* -- Delete the item with key *k*.
 * *Partial-sum(k)* -- Return the sum of all the elements currently in the set whose key is less than *y*, i.e. *∑<sub>x <sub>j</sub> < y </sub>x<sub>i</sub>*. The worst case running time should still be *O(nlogn)* for any sequence of *O(n)* operations.

**Solution** 

This would also require a balanced binary tree like that of [3.13](https://github.com/abdulapopoola/TADMBook/blob/master/Chapter%203/3.13.md). Again, the tree would be made of leaves consisting of the numbers in the array and non-leaf nodes that have values which are the sum of subtree nodes. The difference however is that the leaf nodes are in sorted order.

***Add(k,y)***

Walk to the node with key *k* in the tree; then walk up from that node to the root of the tree making sure to add the value *y* to every node you encounter. Or you can add the value *k* to every sub-tree sum value you encounter along the path to that node.
   
***Insert(k,y)***
Insertion is the typical tree insertion however the subtree sum values have to be updated whenever the tree is balanced (due to the insertion) and also for the newly inserted node. Find the new index in the so

***Delete(k)***
Since the array values form the leaves; once you delete a node, walk up to the parent subtracting the deleted node's value from the intermediate tree sum values.

***Partial-sum(k)***
Similar to the one in 3.13; however once you get to the node in question; the accumulated sum so far is the cumulative sum of all numbers less than that node. So there is no need to have that node value to the sum.

An interesting edge case for this would be how to break ties between equal numbers.
   