3.15. Design a data structure that allows one to search, insert, and delete an integer *X* in *O(1)* time (i.e., constant time, independent of the total number of integers stored). Assume that *1≤X≤n* and that there are *m+n* units of space available, where *m* is the maximum number of integers that can be in the table at any one time. (Hint: use two arrays *A[1..n]* and *B[1..m]*.)
You are not allowed to initialize either *A* or *B*, as that would take *O(m)* or *O(n)* operations. This means the arrays are full of random garbage to begin with, so you must be very careful.

**Solution**

So my first pass at this would have used the *A* array to store *X* values i.e. *A[X] = X* for inserts and then using the *B* array to track repeated counts. However this runs into issues; since we cannot initialize either *A* or *B*; how do we verify that a lookup of any location in *A* is an invalid value?

I found a better solution [here](http://stackoverflow.com/a/9575942/721491) and I am explaining it in my words below:

Create two arrays *A* whose entries point to the index of storage objects in *B* and *B* to hold the numbers and their occurence counts. There is also a need for a counter variable, *numberOfCountsStored*, that tracks the number of counts stored in *B*. This value also points to the maximum known valid storage index in *B*.

For example, the arrays look like the following after storing the sequence: 2,3,3,2,3,2,1.

**Note**: Arrays start at 1 and the lengths of *A* and *B* are *N* and *M* respectively. The *X* denotes an uninitialized location which can be garbage.


| Indices                                       	| 1      	| 2      	| 3      	| 4 	| ... 	|
|-----------------------------------------------	|--------	|--------	|--------	|---	|-----	|
| A (count object reference)                    	| 1      	| 2      	| 3      	| X 	| ... 	|
| B (count objects: count and occurrence count) 	| (1,x1) 	| (2,x3) 	| (3,x3) 	| X 	| ... 	|


**Search(i)**

 * Check *A[i]* to retrieve *i*'s count object index, *index*, in *B*
 * Verify that 0<=*index*<=*numberOfCountsStored*
 * If the step above is invalid, return *false*
 * Retrieve the count object, *countObject* for *i* by accessing *B[index]*
 * Verify its validity by checking that *countObject.value === i && countObject.count > 0*

This is valid because the *numberOfCountsStored* guards against trying to access some garbage masquerading as a valid count location. Secondly the *countObject.value === i && countObject.count > 0* check ensures that the number does exist and wasn't arrived at by pure chance.

**Insert(i)**

* Follow the *search* steps above
* If the number is found; just increase its *countObject.value* by 1
* Otherwise, then we have to insert a new number into our data structure
* Increment *numberOfCountsStored* by 1
* Set *A[i]* to *numberOfCountsStored*
* Initialize *B[numberOfCountsStored]* to the value *(i, 1)

**Delete(i)**

* Follow the *search* steps above
* If the number doesn't exist; return *false*
* If the number exists and its *countObject.value > 1 *; then just decrement that value by 1
* If the *countObject.value == 1*; then the number has to be deleted (e.g. the 1 in the table above)
* We need to remove the hole in the array while still keeping our invariants valid. This is achieved by moving the last *countObject* value into the deleted object's new location (i.e. the hole) and then reducing the *numberOfCountsStored* value by 1 to make the old location invalid.
* Retrieve the last *countObject* via *B[numberOfCountsStored]*
* Set *B[i] = countObject*. This fills the deleted hole with last *countObject*
* Set*A[countObject.value] = i*. This ensures that the pointer in *A* now points to the right location. Remember that *countObject.value* is always the index in A too.
* Decrement *numberOfCountsStored* by 1 to ensure that 
* 